All right, so
let's get on to parameterization.
This is a feature of XState that makes it,
it's just basically a refactoring feature.
But it also makes it easier to visualize
how different parts of your machine
are working and just showing what
they're supposed to be doing.
If we go back to the scratch.index file.
Index.js file, we could take this and
we could parameterize it.
Basically we're just refactoring it.
So, over here,
we want to increment the count.
So we could do something like,
call this const increment count.
And, put that over there, and
then have this just be increment counts.
This is just standard
JavaScript refactoring.
So this is going to work
the exact same way.
If we go home, we see that it's
still increments exactly the same.
But what we could also do is,
we could take this,
make this a string, and
as the second arguments to our machine,
we could say for example,
actions Increment count,
we could have that be that same action,
that same implementation.
In this case,
it's the same as increments counts.
And everything's going to work the same.
So you might be asking yourself,
why exactly do I want to do that?
>> Why do I want to do that
small amounts of refactoring,
if it's going to do the same thing?
And the reason is because with
XState react, and XState in general,
you have the flexibility to
change what side effects do.
Sort of like you would mock in unit
tests you could change the behavior
of what the side effects are doing
in a given implementation.
So for example, let's say that we
want to increments by 100 instead.
So in use machine in the second arguments,
we could specify increments
counts to be something different.
So we could say assign and
we could add 100, instead of one.
And so now this is going to be specific
to the machine being used over here.
So, if we go here and reload and
click here, now we're going to see that
our increment counts does something
different in this component.
And so this is really essential
to having these machines.
That are reusable that you could use in
different components and that do different
things depending on which component
they're in or which behavior you want.
And you could also do things like
just have this be I don't know,
an empty function that doesn't
do anything and you could leave
the implementation details up
to the consumer of this machine.
So if I forget to add that,
XState react is going to warn you
that that action wasn't implemented.
I probably have warnings hidden.
So, you won't see that over here.
But if I click over here.
But yeah, you will get a warning
if you have warnings showing
over here that that action
wasn't implemented.
And so it's up to you to just go ahead and
implement that.
So we could just change
this to increment count.
Are there any questions on that?.
So, the question was, what can be
the thing that's passed into actions?
Can it be an external module or
something like that?
Yes, essentially it could be anything.
So, an action is something that,
if it's not a built-in XState action,
it could be a function that takes
the current context and event, and
basically does whatever you want here.
So if I alert increments,
then I click here it's
going to say increments.
Now that function can be anything.
It could come from a module,
it could definitely be an external module,
it could call a third party library.
And that's why actions are really,
really useful.
And parameterizing actions are useful too.
Let's say that you want to do logging or
telemetry or something.
Is our actions a good place to do that?
It depends, but mostly yes.
So, let's say that we do have,
let's just have a telemetry over here.
And right now it does nothing.
But we want to add telemetry over here.
And we could console.log,
let's say, logging telemetry.
And maybe pass it the events as well.
And so we could define in specific states
where we want that telemetry to be.
So let's say we want telemetry here.
And we also want telemetry,
whenever we enter pending,
we could have it entry telemetry.
And so now we're going to see that
we do get that telemetry over here.
And obviously it's just
logging to the console.
You can make it do whatever you want.
But sometimes, let's say that you want
to have it happen on every state.
So, there's a couple of ways to do that
in react, you could just use effect.
And so whenever the state changes,
that's when you want to,
you could console.log the state,
and just do all of that.
Now, when you're using XState
in the context other than react,
you have what's called a service,
and in XState react
that's returned as the third
part of your tuple over here.
A service is a machine that's running.
It's that interpreted service or
sorry, the interpreted machine.
And so you could do service.subscribe.
And you could do whatever you want
over here so you could log telemetry.
In this subscribe function
you do get the state,
and remember the state includes
everything, the context,
the event, any actions, and
if you want to clean up this effect,
so you have const subscription,
you could return sub.unsubscribe.
And so that's how you could
do that cleanup over there.
In general use effect is useful when
you want to do something every single
time the state changes.
But otherwise if you want to be more
granular, then yes, use actions instead.